THE
CONFESSION AND EXECUTION
OF
Letitia Wigington
of Ratclif, who suffered at TYBURN,
on Fryday the 9 h of this instant September, 1681, written
by her own hand in the Goal of Newgate two days be-
fore her death, being Condemned for whiping her
Apprentice Girl to Death.We are fully satisfied, that the following Paper was written by this
unhappy womans own hand, a while before her Death, and though at her Tryal
for this horrid fact, the Evidence against her, was full, clear and
undeniable, yea which is more, though she was then so ingenious to confess
her self really guilty thereof, having lain so many months in Newgate, we
have very great reason to judg she has been too well acquainted with that
cursed crew of Popish Priests and Jesuites, who it is to feared have
debauched her with their own damnable Principles, whereby they have
perswaded her to deny what she before had so full confessed, which she does
in the very words of those Jesuites who lately deservedly suffered for
Treason against his Majesty, etc. who though they were Tried and condemned
(as well well as her self) upon the clearest Evidence imaginable, yet
Atheistically even with their last Breath affirmed, That they were as
innocent as the Child newborn.Micah the 7th Chapt and 8 9 Verses.Rejoyce not against me, O mine Enemy : when I fall, I shall arise, when I
sit in darkness, the Lord shall be a Light unto me.I will bear the
Indignation of the Lord, because I have sinned against him, until he plead
my cause, and excuse judgment for me : he will bring me forth to the Light,
and I shall behold his Righteousness.This place of Scripture I made choice of, as being somewhat pertinent to
the business, and troubles and afflictions that are inflicted on me,
wherefore upon my bended Knees I humbly desire all you that have been my
loving Neighbours and Friends, and all other good Christians, that have
heard of this horrid and dreadful misfortune that hath befallen me, and you
that shall read these doleful Lines, let pity move your hearts to read
them, and you that have had any hand in taking away my Life wrongfully, I
pray God forgive you all, but let me admonish you not to abuse the dead by
giving out your cruel speeches by me, as you have done in my Life time
(that never did you any harm) first for Imprison me wrongfully, and that
not satisfying, but to prompt on one, that was my Apprentice Rebecca
Clifford by name, who was not full 12 years of age, to swear against me,
she not being sensible of the danger of taking a false Oath, so that you
have used me at your pleasure. I speak to you all, Rich and Poor, great and
small, that have any hand in my Death whoever you are, for you cannot, be
ignorant of the great evil you have done me, (a poor friendless Creature)
for you have made it your business to take away my life, who am as innocent
as concerning the Murder for which I suffer as the Child unborn: but why
should I reflect upon my Innocence and the abuse put upon 
on me who am a person full of sin and corruption, when our blessed Saviour
who knew no sin, neither was Guilt found in him, and yet he was buffeted
and spit on and falsly accused and crucified between two Thieves, and yet
he took it patiently, and was led as a Lamb to the slaughter, and as a
sheep before her Shearer is dumb, so opened he not his mouth, but took the
Cup of his Father's Indignation with chearfulness and all this for the sins
of poor lost Man, and therefore why should I think it a burden to take his
Yoke upon me which is made to me both easie and light, oh no, for though I
were to be torn Limb from Limb, or to be burned in flames, I could
chearfully undergo it for meet my Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, for this
is my comfort, in all my troubles that though you kill my Body, you cannot
touch my precious and immortal Soul, that is bound up in the bundle of
Life, and I thank my God, that I have a good assurance of everlasting
happiness in another world, though I suffer a shameful and ignominious
Death here, there is laid up for me a Crown of Glory which fadeth not away
eternally in the Heavens, and if this be the way that my dear Redeemer hath
ordained for me to obtain it, welcome, yea thrice welcome is that Rope
which is to put a period to all my miseries and oppressions which have been
very numerous and great, for I have been kept a prisoner now 8 Months,
where I have lain upon the hard boards having nothing but bread and water,
and no more than a penny-Loaf a day neither; and my Flesh black and blew
with lying upon the boards for want of a Bed, and I can say with that
blessed Man of old (David) I have watered the boards as I laid on with
bitter Tears for my manifold sins and wickedness. For though the Lord did
suffer Man to be so cruel to me, it was my sins was the cause that the Lord
laid this Yoke upon me, but our Saviour hath said, Come unto me all you
that are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest, which promise I
can with comfort say, hath been made good to me, for though my body hath
wanted Food and suffered great hardships, yet my Soul hath been fed with
the bread of Heaven, for though I am here confined amongst a company of
poor blind ignorant and gross sinners that have not the fear of God before
their eyes, yet as the Bee sucks hony out of the worst of herbs and
flowers, so I though hearing their horrid cursing and swearing, do the more
though my self at the Lords Feet with a true and faithful zeal in serving
him night and day, with fervent Prayers, and never left wrestling with God,
and crying with bitter Tears to the Lord, till I found his lively Faith
springing in my Soul. I never left lying prostrated at the Lords Feet,
begging Mercy for my poor Soul till I found some assurances of his Love and
favour, and now I doubt not but that when the thred of my Life shall be cut
off, my Soul will be received into that Glory which no Tongue can express,
neither hath it entered into the heart of Man to conceive. The Lord hath
wrought great works on me, and hath been very merciful to me, but if my
Lord and Saviour had been so cruel as Men and Women have been to me, I had
been ere this time burning in the Flames of Hell; wherefore I do here
humbly beseech and exhort all that shall read this, that you serve the Lord
with ferventness of Spirit, and cease not day nor night to power out your
prayses to him, that he will subdue your sins in you and to ingraft his
Grace in your hearts, the Lord hath many ways to bring them that are his,
home to himself: and the Lord is minded this way to bring me to the him as
to let my person to suffer this shameful Death, and to be a Spectacle to
the World and be scandalized in a very gross manner, but seeing it is the
good Will and Pleasure of my Redeemer, to take me to himself this way, I
take it as well as though I dyed in my Bed, and imbrace it with the more
Joy, considering the great Conflict my dear Saviour suffered for me, O
then, how sweet is the Death to me. I have lain in the horrid place ever
since Christmas last, in which time I have not ceased day nor night to cry
unto the Lord, for mercy on my poor Soul, and crying as the Jaylor did once
to Paul and Silas, What shall I do to be saved, I thought when I was at
Liberty that I did serve the Lord well in my Family, but now I find I was
nothing but a filthy bag of Corruption, and came very short of any good
performances, wherefore I do upon my bended Knees, and with floods of Tears
as being the last request of a dying woman, humbly beseech all Masters and
Mistresses of Families (that shall read this, that you will be careful and
diligent in performing Family duties, and to pray with ferventness amongst
them that are under your care and tuition knowing that if through your
neglect any of them be lost, the Lord will require them at your hands.I do think it my duty (and I doubt not but it will be matter of
satisfaction to some who are my friends) to declare unto them the whole
circumstance of the thing for which I am to suffer, and I do here in the
presence of Almighty God, who knows the secrets of all hearts (and know my
innocence) declare nothing but the real truth, which is as follows, viz.As for this John Sadler, I never saw him in all my Life, but a Week before
he came to Lodge at my House, and that was at one Ann Thornby's Home, and
she told me, That he was a very Civil Man, and his Wife a very Honest
Woman, and she asked me. Whether they should Lodge at my House? And I poor
Creature, with the advice of Elisabeth Holton, (who was Aunt to the Girl
that was Murdered by this unfortunate Lodger John Sadler,) took them to
Lodge in my House, by reason I had a great Charge, and an unkind Husband,
who left his Ship and Living and I having three small Children to keep,
poor silly Woman thought that I might maintain them the better with the
Monny, that I should have for their Lodging, paying me but one shilling a
Week, as to buy my Dear Babes bread, and to feed my two Apprentices as
never got me half their Bread; but with one groat more than the shilling
found us all Bread. This John Sadler was a Sea man, and he and a Water-man,
was a runner of Goods, and he used to have hot Victuals every day, and with
dressing of my Victuals and some small releif of them by their Victuals.
made me let them Lodge at my house: but I call God to be my witness, that I
did not know, but that they were Man and Wife, but as for that Sin they
were Guilty of it, and not I, but since I was imprisoned here in this
horrid place, I heard that by John Sadlers Sister, that they were not Man
and Wife, but that lyes at their own Door, therefore people have been very
cruel to me in giving our such gross Lies of me. as to say, that I lay with
John Sadler, and that I was a VVhore to other before: and upon no other
grounds, but only by reason I did plead my Belly, which thing I was advised
to, after I came into this place, that so I might save my Life. But do here
in the presence of Almighty God declare, that I was never in all my Life
Guilty of the horrid Sins of Adultery or Fornication, for I ever all my
Life, thought that if I should be Guilty of them sins, that I should be
Damned to all Eternity, I do not speak this to justifie my self out of a
Vain-glorious way, for I do confess, that I have been a great Sinner, but
as for that Sin I did ever abhor it in all my Life, and should I have
slandered any person in that manner, I should have feared that the Lord
would have shown some heavy Judgment upon me immediately, besides the woe
that is pronounced against Liers and Slanderers: and as for the Girl that
Swore against me, I wish one would reason the Case with her to know whether
she thinks that I am Guilty when I am Dead and gone, for she knows that
John Sadler did this Evil, and hath given an account for his Sins, I came
up when he was beating the Girl and asked him, What he did? and she knows
that when the Girl was Dead, he would have condescended to have me Bury the
Girl, and he would have bought a Crape Mourning Suit and a Coffin, he said
this to me, and Mris. Thornby , I told him No, as for what he had done, I
knew not, but I would have him go before a Justice to Answer what he had
done; upon these Words, he turned to Ann Thornby, and the Woman who
pretended she was Sadlers Wife, for she was by all the time, that this Man
did the Murder, and then I sent the Girl to one Mr. Robert Acton to call
him, to come and bring other Neighbours to carry this Man before a Justice,
but Mris. Acton sent one Thomas Miliner his Man, while this Man and the
Girl was coming, this Ann Thornby came and told me, that her Mother and her
Partner which were the Searchers, would yield to give it in that the Girl
did dye a Natural Death, but I said that I would not be Guilty of that for
all the World, then this Ann Thornby, asked me, Where the Girl was gone, I
said, to call Mr. Acton then said she let me out, for I will not see him,
whereupon I being almost half Distracted, I opened the Door a little, for
fear John Sadler should make his escape; but this Ann Thornby clapped her
Foot against the Door and ran away, and bid him run for his Life, with that
I ran and caught him by the Hair, and then the Girl and Thomas Milliner
came and found me strugling with him, and I told this young Man all that
had hapned to me; and this John Sadler, told him how that I was clear, and
how that he would perswade me to let him Bury it, but I said no, I would
have him before a Justice, then came the Woman his Wife, and Ann Thornby's
Mother, and would fain have him be gone away with them; but I said he
should not stir till he had went before a Justice, with 
with that he said, he would go up Stairs and fetch his Gloves and he went
up and Leapt to that the Window, but I seeing the lower Window darkened, I
look up and sow him leap out at the Window, and I run out and Cryed out,
Murder, Murder, and Thieves after him, Thomas Milliner,, and Ann Thornby,
and the Woman as Swore to me, that John Sadler was her Husband, and Ann
Thornby's Mother were by when this John Sadler made his escape; and when I
came in from crying out Murder and Theives after him, I thought to have
kept her, but when I came in they were all gone, and this way I am cheated
of my Life, for the Man ran a private way up a place which is in Ratcliff
called the Orchard, and being Christmassday towarhs the Evening and people
were not abroad in the Streets, and I went to Mr. Actons, and to Mris.
Mills , and to Mr. Eltons the Apothecary, and made my complaint, and from
thence to the Girls Aunt to tell her what was befallen me, and that I had
not taken these Lodgers in, but that she perswaded me to let them Lodge in
my House. But they were dear Lodgers to me and mine, and to the Girl that
is deceased, and when I was at Elisabeth Holtons House, which is the Girls
Aunt, one Cardom a Bailiff, one as I think a little fears the Lord, caused
me to be taken and brought to this horrid place, or else I had been an
Evidence against John Sadler, and this Girl which Swore against me, Rebecka
Clifford, Cryed by me and said, She knew that I was innocent from the Fact
for which I now dye, to the World, but shall Live in the Lord for ever,
this is the whole Truth and the last Words of a dying Woman, who truly and
senserely feares the Lord of Heaven and Earth, and I could heartily wish I
were as free from Committing of all other Sins, as I am of that Murder,
Adultery and Fornication or Swearing, four things which I was never guilty
of in my Life, though I must confess I have been a great Sinner, but I am
assured,, that they are washed away in the Blood of that Imaculate Lamb,
which was shed to take away the Sins of all them that truly & sinserely
repent, but the Lord suffered this great affliction to fall on me to draw
me nearer to himself, for whom the Lord loveth he Chastiseth, even as a
Father the Son in whom he delighteth, I desire all good Christians to Judge
Charitably of this my Speech, and not to think that I Pen this to justifie
myself, but I desire to condemn my self, that I may be Justified by my dear
Redeemer: but I do this to satisfy all that are my Friends, that I dye in
the faith and fear of my Creator and Redeemer, who shall change my vile
body, that it may be like his glorious Body, and one chief Reason of my
penning this, is to satisfy my dear Husband, whom I ever lover dearer then
any thing in this World, but when he heard, that I pleaded my Belly, he was
incenced against me by wicked people, who incensed him, that I was disloyal
to him, and that scandal which was raised by them hindered him from coming
to me, though I had not seen him in almost two years, and unkind Friends at
Deal, kept the Letter from him which I sent, so that my Life as to this
World was lost through the Treachery of unkind Friends, but as to the
eternal State never more sure then now; my Husband did send up some Mony
about Whitsuntide last to get my Reprieve, but but being informed that I
was with Child, ordered it back again, which was occasioned by the Malice
of wicked people, who did not care what scandals they did raise upon me, I
pray God forgive them, and lay not this Sin to their charge, and as for the
Girl that swore against me and was the cause of my dying this shameful
Death, though as innocent as the Child unborn, I pray God to forgive her,
and let not my innocent Blood be required at her hands, though she hath
been the cause of all this, my great Tryal and afflictions, and without the
great mercy of God, the ruins of my three poor Children, who I am afraid
will be bound to curse her, but the Lord hath promised to be a Father to
the Fatherless and to fee the need and oppressed to have right, and as for
them whoever they were that did make Ballads and Books upon me after I was
brought to Newgate; and raised great scandal and ignominy, and added grief
to my Afflictions, I pray God forgive them all, and my dear Husband for
giving Credit to their slanderous Reports, and not to be so kind as to come
and know the Truth of the woe matter, I do here in the presence of Almighty
God declare, that I dye as innocent of the Crime for which my Body suffers,
as the Child yet unborn, and I can truly say, that I am in Charity with all
the World, and do conclude with that excellent prayer of the Littany. That
it may please the to forgive my enemies persecutors and Slanderers, and to
turn their Hearts; I beseech thee to hear us good Lord.LONDON, Printed for Langley Curtiss, on Ludgate -hill.